---
title: Invitations
layout: default
parent: First steps
nav_order: 5
---
## Invitations

Wedding invitations set the tone and provide essential details like dress code, venue directions, and parking info.

- **Traditional approach**: In Poland, close family and friends are most often invited in person, with senior guests typically receiving their invitations first. For closer family and friends, the invitation usually extends to both the wedding ceremony and the subsequent reception.

- **Ceremony-only guests**: It is perfectly acceptable in Polish wedding etiquette to invite certain guests, such as more distant acquaintances or work colleagues, solely to the wedding ceremony (civil or church). This allows you to include them in your special day without extending an invitation to the often more intimate and costly reception. Your invitation should clearly specify if a guest is invited only to the ceremony.

- **Digital options**: Paper invitations remain popular, but email or wedding websites offer a budget-friendly and eco-conscious alternative.

- **RSVP management**: Clearly indicate on your invitations how guests should RSVP and whether they will be attending both the ceremony and the reception. Online forms or spreadsheets can simplify guest list management and ensure accurate headcounts for catering and seating arrangements.
  
<div style="background-color: #add8e6; border-left: 5px solid grey; padding: 1em; margin: 1em 0;">
<strong>Info:</strong> If inviting international guests, consider bilingual invitations to avoid confusion.
</div> 
