---
title: Civil ceremony (*ślub cywilny*)
layout: default
parent: Legal requirements
nav_order: 1
---
## Civil ceremony (*ślub cywilny*)

### Overview

- A legally binding marriage conducted at a Register office (*Urząd Stanu Cywilnego*, USC).
- Suitable for couples seeking a non-religious ceremony.
- Involves submitting identification documents and a birth certificate.
- A civil marriage ceremony can be held at the Register office (*Urząd Stanu Cywilnego*, USC) or another approved location. See also: Outdoor wedding.
- Additional requirements and fees may apply for non-office locations.

### Required documents

- Valid identification (passport or national ID)
- Birth certificates
- A certificate confirming the legal capacity to marry (*zdolność prawna do zawarcia małżeństwa*) issued by the appropriate authority in one’s home country. If obtaining this document is not possible, a Polish court's decision to waive this requirement is necessary.
- Proof of termination of previous marriages (*dowód ustania poprzednich małżeństw*) - divorce or death certificate.
- Proof of address in Poland (if applicable)

> ### Process
> 1. Apply at the local Register office (*Urząd Stanu Cywilnego*, USC) at least 30 days before the wedding.
> 2. The marriage can take place no sooner than one month after submitting the declaration of no impediment to marriage.
> 3. Pay the application fee (*opłata za wniosek*) via bank transfer, payment machine, or cash in Polish złoty.
> 4. Both partners must be present and sign the marriage intent declaration (*oświadczenie o braku przeszkód do zawarcia małżeństwa*).

<div style="background-color: #ffffb1; border-left: 5px solid grey; padding: 1em; margin: 1em 0;">
<strong>Note:</strong> All foreign documents must be translated into Polish by a sworn translator (tłumacz przysięgły). If either party does not speak Polish, a sworn translator must be present during meetings at the USC and the ceremony.
</div>